Everyone: load in the two data files, they are a subset of raw DNA methylation data from the Illumina 450k array along with some simulated results.

•	IMED7280_2019_datavis_example.rdata
•	IMED7280_2019_datavis_data.rdata

And take a look at them to see what they contain. You should see three files:
o	Bet – beta values, matrix of probes x samples
o	Meta – metadata: participant, tissue, study
o	Cord_adult_ct_sub: results from whole genome LR between Study within cell types (subset, so the numbers probably won’t make sense)
§	CT_P = pvalue
§	CT_E = effect size
§	Some probe information

On Monday, each person will choose one type of plot to try. Work through the steps below for your assigned plot, and on Wednesday be prepared to show your code and plots to the group for discussion. The last step for each is deliberately meant to be difficult – please do try it and be ready to discuss what worked/didn’t work on Wednesday. 

Plot 1: Heatmap

1.	Make a heatmap of the first 100 beta values using ggplot and geom_tile
2.	Change default parameters to increase clarity - think themes, colours, labels, etc.
3.	Reorder the X axis by Tissue. Note there are at least two ways to do this! From the original data or in ggplot itself. If you have time, try both
4.	Repeat this heatmap with only sites from the U6 gene
5.	ADVANCED: reorder the y axis of the top 100 probes to cluster hierarchically


Plot 2: Scatterplot
1.	Pick one Tissue and plot the effect size E versus the pvalue P
2.	Turn it into a volcano plot by applying a log10 y axis
3.	Change the default settings to increase clarity - think themes, colours, labels, etc.
4.	Colour only those points with an effect size greater than 0.05 a different colour and/or different size
5.	ADVANCED: reshape the original data to make a single faceted plot showing volcano plots for each Tissue type 


Plot 3: Boxplot
1.	Make a boxplot of beta values for one sample using CpG island class as a category (don’t choose an nRBC sample they are weird)
2.	Change the default settings to increase clarity - think themes, colours, labels, etc.
3.	Add the original data points as a second layer and position them over the boxes (NOTE – what does boxplot do with outliers?)
4.	Make a violin plot using the same data
5.	ADVANCED: Make a faceted violin plot with all cell types from individual “TS194” showing beta value by CpG island class


Plot 4: Histogram/density plot
1.	Make a histogram of p values for CD4T cells
2.	Change default parameters to increase clarity
3.	Overlap histograms of p values for CD4T and Monocytes, and modify them to be clearer
4.	Repeat step 3 but use density plot instead, and modify as needed to make it clear
5.	ADVANCED: Make both an overlap of all the cell type density plots as well as a faceted version with one distribution per facet and decide which is best
